	The issue with looking into bike locks as a potential market is that bike locks, including smart bike locks, are already quite numerous. Products like Skylock, Linka, and Bitlock all offer a variety of services like smartphone keys and theft alert. Skylock even offers what they claim to be 256 bit cryptography to prevent anyone from electronically opening the lock. In any case, in order to hypothetically compete against these already established products, this bike lock must offer to the targeted customers something that they won't get from other products.

	One issue of bike locks is, of course, how long it would take to break into one. Theoretically, chains, cables, and U-locks can all be broken in at 42 seconds or under using the proper materials. However, that is only a theoretical experiment. Real thieves may not have the tools on hand as they are difficult to conceal and explain if they're caught with them. In fact, many thieves would be discouraged by a U-lock, especially if it's properly used to secure not only the frame, but various loose parts that could also be stolen and sold for high value. One should note that a professional could still break said locks in a couple of minutes. Bait bikes, with GPS embedded in the frame, are used by NYPD to catch thieves and are noted to be notoriously difficult to steal. GPS taped to the bottom of the seat, however, not so much. Those can be ripped off and thrown away with relative ease.

	At this time, from talking to a few people who visit bike forums, it seemed that common problems for bikers is that if a bike is not properly secured, it is very easy to steal. The issue is that many people do not know how to secure a bike. Perhaps, if the design of the lock forces people to lock the bike properly, it would be able to prevent theft. Theft of parts, as mentioned before, is also mentioned to be very common, so locks may want to try and secure the parts along with the actual bike as well. However, it is also known that the design of the lock, especially small locks, are harder to break because it is difficult to get the tools needed to break them in the position to do so if the lock is positioned correctly. Most locks are broken physically, so electronic encryption is not a big concern. Based on articles written by various bike enthusiasts, the ease of transportation of a lock is also a major concern. People rather not lug around cumbersome locks no matter how difficult they are to break.

	If a GPS that could not be easily found or removed could be attached to the bike, it would be possible to track it even if it is stolen. This is a possible angle to pursue in case a smart bike lock is not possible to market. On the note of market, most smart bike locks are rather expensive, with prices easily reaching triple digits. Even high-end mechanical U-locks may cost that much. Of course, being able to produce a low cost lock that does the job is always a boon against competition.

	The problems this lock must tackle is ease of transport, price, and ability to discourage thieves. It may be able to notify the user as bike users in the city are often in the vicinity. Given that the estimated time to break a good lock even for a pro is a few minutes, you or authorities may be able to interrupt the process on time. Ideas to look into are ability to secure parts of a bike in addition to the bike itself as well as designing it so a person who doesn't know how to properly lock a bike would be forced to do so.

	I think that more interaction with the customer segment, especially those on the city street, is necessary to gauge exactly how important the above points are. Research will also need to be done on what constitutes a strong bike lock and how much estimated costs would be to do so. Finally, professional and official sources should be found on these topics as the research done currently use second hand sources written by common people.
