Albert Chang										EID101D
Competitive Landscape Homework
	People choose to bike because it is a healthy exercise, is more environmental friendly 
than other means of transportation, and require less incremental payments to support. Bicycle 
commuting is becoming more common. From 2005 to 2013, the states on average show 46% increase 
in the share of people commuting by bicycle with higher concentration in places like 
Pennsylvania and Massachusetts which increase by more than 100%. The customer segment that I 
looked at is the city residents who chose to commute by bicycle. From the group, there are 
those that value their bicycles for monetary circumstances such as a job of running deliveries 
or for recreational usage such as touring the city. Troubles that they get into are road 
accidents and theft of parts or just the whole bicycle. Around $350 million in bicycles are 
stolen in the United States each year however the National Bike Registry and FBI cannot 
account for all stolen bicycles so the number should be higher. Bicycles not kept indoors are 
exposed to danger. For the owners who value their bicycles, more protection is needed to deter 
these people from trouble. 
	Many smart bike locks are already developed or being developed however the features are 
more toward convenience of the owner and approved users to unlock the bicycle. Bluetooth allow 
for the locks to connect to phones to decide whether to lock or unlock. The lock is tracked in 
order to locate the bicycle. LoopLock is an o-lock which means it prevents the wheel from 
spinning. This product utilizes solar energy to power itself. BitLock is a u-lock which means 
the shape is made to limit space for leveraging and the mechanism resist hammers, chisels, and 
such. This product has a backup unlocking system in case the phone is momentarily not usable. A 
sequence of button, previously set by phone, is pressed to unlock the bicycle. Skylock is a 
u-lock. This product alert people of the user’s trusted network of crashes that it detect with 
an accelerometer. The other use of this accelerometer is to detect shake of the bicycle 
signaling theft. LINKA is an o-lock that has most of the features mentioned. It has a 100dB 
siren and lasting battery that could be recharge. There is a lasso chain made for this product 
to park the bicycle. Mobiloc is a cable lock which means it is versatile enough to tie down 
removable parts like the seat. 
	The problem of stolen bicycle parts has been approached mechanically rather than 
electrically. Pinhead Locks made locks for all major bicycle components. The locks are to 
remain on the bicycle permanently after installation and require special wrenches to tamper 
with. Their customer buys the lockset which comes with its own “key”. 
	Users are fine with using Pinhead products to secure parts. It functions only as a 
deterrent as professionals will have ways to get to the bicycle no matter what one does. 
Securing bolts and nuts is too much of a costly venture. Accessories that would add up to cost 
more than the bicycle itself are repelling to people. People who are not buying more specialize 
tools learn to make do with simpler arrangements. Secondary mini u-lock, cable lock, and 
others can be use in conjunction to secure wheels and other parts. 
	Communication with more common day cyclists who are not putting their opinion online 
is needed. We need to know if the potential customers feel safer with electrical locks than 
mechanical locks and if they think their bicycle is at risk. Decisions on features to 
implement on the lock interlock with many other research topics. Cost calculations need to 
agree with consumer expectations. 
