Andy Qiu								          October 1, 2015
EID101-D							         Competitive Market Essay

	The market for smart bike locks that help prevent bike theft is not very large. Among the
few are Cricket, Linka, BitLock, SkyLock and Lock8. Lock8, trumping the other bike locks in my
opinion, contains many of the preventative measures that many can even think of, and is what our
model is based around. It is simple to use, offers a wide range of protection from theft, and
contains a GPS tracking signal in case of theft. The main issue with the market is that it hasn’t
gained much traction. Compared to the market for mechanical Kryptonite bike locks, the
electronic bike lock market just isn’t gaining traction.

	As for the bike locks that don’t quite offer the same amount of protection, their main
use is simply an electronic bike lock – one that doesn’t require keys and often contains a GPS
in them. One cyclist voiced his opinion saying that “[thieves] will get [through] anything.”
These bike locks don’t work very well to prevent bike theft and can easily be cut through. It is
estimated that even a very high-quality D-lock can be cut through in the matter of four minutes.

	Lock8, one of the most accomplished bike locks, has raised approximately £60,000 in their
kickstarter. Its appeal is evident from the amount of protection that it offers. It contains a
three-axis gyroscope and accelerometer to detect motion, a light sensor to detect cuts in the
cable, and temperature sensor to detect if anyone tries to tamper with the lock using a torch or
freezing methodOne of the main drawbacks is that locks are either too bulky or too pricey for
the caliber of protection that the consumer segment cares about. In the many bike forum threads
considered, veteran cyclists moved away from the idea of a good bike lock and more towards the
attitude of just riding “a Craigslist special” or “a good bike that looks crappy” to deter
thieves from considering their bike as a target.

	Thus, our main considerations for our value proposition need to be around reliability
against theft, bulk and hindrance on the cyclist, and price. On reliability, much of the
protection that Lock8 offers can be included. A bike lock with the sensors that Lock8 has is a
good arsenal to have. For bulk and hindrance, a good quality D-lock seems to be a popular choice
amongst many. Our value proposition can stem off much of what the Lock8 does, however can
increase its reliability. Many cyclists don’t actually know how to lock their bikes. The most
fool-proof of the locks is the D-lock since there is only two general areas one can logically put
it to protect their bike. However, depending on the design of our lock, a D-lock may not be the
best choice. For example, mounting the lock on the bike seems to be the prevalent way to offer
GPS tracking on the bike.